hi guys is an honor and welcome to my
review of two books actually by the same
of them one which came out very recently
and I've read last year and one please
the publish button
of that I have reread lost here just to
refresh the rumor and compare both of
them so if you have read them and you
interested stay tuned
so in November last year have finally
picked up and read the gene and interval
history but sit heart emoji he is an
American oncologist
he's also research scientist he's
focused obviously on cancer genetics and
he is of an Indian descent so this is
his second the popular fiction book and
that follows up from where he left with
his Pulitzer Prize winner Book Room
Pulitzer book I think in 28 2011 which I
absolutely adores this is the Emperor of
all maladies so as I mentioned I started
reading the gene back in November I
finished very early in December I didn't
like it but I didn't fall in love with
it and I remember how much I loved his
first book so I went in reread the
Emperor holidays in December and I had
lots to do this review but I kind of
procrastinated so I thought I better do
it while still fleshly mind I'm not an
active scientist I can't really
criticize too much but I do have a
background in the Medical Genetics
and I have my PhD in molecular biology
just a little harder than Jesus
afterwards as a social scientist my
Master's was in cancer genetics so I
kind of do have a very solid background
so I think I know a little bit more than
lay audience for whom those books are
there actually so it should be fairly
key for me to judge those books right so
the gene the gene starts really really
in a similar line to the Emperor of all
maladies so he
he tries to be down to earth and he
tries to make books and the subject
matter more personal by giving you a
little bit of the background of his
family so he's using his old family
history to set the book and he quite
openly shares some of the very personal
information about mental health and his
family which I thought was a really
brave decision to do because he must
have asked permission for his siblings
and the remaining older relatives but
every family would want a dirty you
don't pride it in such a way the book is
divided into sections so it walks you
through the history of the modern
genetics it starts pretty much but a
little bit of introduction would happen
before Gregor Mendel and then walks you
really nicely through the 19th century
for the early 20th century it talks
about the movement called eugenics and
quite nice details it gives you a little
bit of a history of that and some of the
most prominent cases and clear abuse of
the human rights a little bit about the
bengal and ash listen his horrible
experiments in human bodies doesn't
actually mention much about what the
Japanese did to the mandarins because
they basically had a very similar system
a lot of us below but upon this old
hypothermia when you get really really
cold comes from their torture of the
prisoners of war they would literally
submerge them in the ice-cold water see
how long they were lost but a lot of
divers and submarine training cos now
based on it
and I had absolutely no problem with
that all the way up to no eras in
history and I think his more recent by
recent I mean 2004 onwards side of the
book is lacking in detail what I really
liked about this is the way he writes so
his writing prose is really really easy
to follow if you love experts in the
field you will find it super easy to
just turn the pages he tries to break it
terminology down so it's pretty much
every single thing is defined
at least once he gives you excellent
references I think if you an a-level
student or if you're very keen GCC
student a reference list along is
fantastic and I commend him for that but
as far as the modern techniques go it's
a bit short and I dunno why so I'll come
back to this because I can't talk about
this book without talking about the
Emperor of all maladies which i think is
definitely the stronger the two books
there's a bit thicker it clearly took
him longer to write he also based on the
same principle I can see how this was an
obvious sequel to the history of cancer
he is an oncologist so this is his area
of expertise
not only his area of expertise this is
the area he loves and he studied in
detail and his love for the subject it
just shines I think that's what makes
this book so wonderful is that he
clearly loves to talk about it he loves
what he does and a lot of the stuff he
discusses in the Emperor melodies people
need to know because most people don't
know much about the history of oncology
didn't understand why chemotherapy camp
came from originally don't understand
where I did therapy came from so this
book starts in a very similar vein so it
goes back to the ancient Egypt and a
little bit of what we knew it talks
about very early sort of medieval ways
of dealing with cancer 19th century
links and then obviously the majority of
the book is 20th century and he gives
you a wonderful detailed account of the
movements responsible for them the way
we look at cancer now the way we look at
cancer and fundraising for cancer
research has changed dramatically since
1960s and this is the most funded alien
medicine working last harmonization
Huntington before I can only attest that
the amount of charity money the amount
of government money which co-stars
cancer is humongous if you compared to
any other research
and you can argue well as well if you
judge by the most recent statistics in
the UK when I did my university degree
in the 2000s we've been told that one in
three of us will die of cancer
now it's wouldn't you so we are living
longer therefore we're more likely to
come across this disease I absolutely
love the section devoted to chemotherapy
research in leukemia research in America
it reads as a thriller a religion this
was just as wonderful experiences
reading back in 2011
obviously seven years now passed by this
science has moved on so it does leave
you hanging with a more modern research
it doesn't really talk much about the
gene therapy for cancer but it gives you
the basics explains to you why we need a
cocktail medicine why doing dramatic
breast augmentations if you have breast
cancer it's not always good and the
difference in their surgeries and how
particularly in America the public on
look towards cancer has changed
dramatically over the years it's a
wonderful book and I can totally see how
to keep at least seven years to write I
can see how he came up with one idea and
he worked on it at night while he was
working in the hospital I love the
personal approach I love the way he very
nicely in gently brings his own
experience with his old patients in and
because he kind of finished with a
modern age the most logical progression
as I mentioned before was to go to the
gene but here I find him the book was
rushed a little bit more it wasn't a
labor of love this is like a child this
is the child you love this is more like
I'm proud of my work but I also said I
loved it as much I think maybe he gives
in the Year another two years he could
have worked with him a modern sight
better another thing which I didn't like
and I struck me in Emperor malice but he
it was mentioned less than he obviously
the guy's absolutely obsessed absolutely
obsessed James Watson James was one of
the three people awarded Nobel Prize for
the discovery of DNA and I don't really
like him not even as a person even as a
scientist I think the guy got lucky I
don't think he's bloody amazing and sin
heart emoji he/she says he praises and
in this book that was grating on me that
was really grating on me the amount of
pages devoted to things like epistasis
was very very small epigenetics pretty
much got no mention I think it's such a
hot topic at the moment and so many more
people would love to know more than what
the heck is epigenetics and how does the
fact the genome and how our lifestyle
will have a dramatic impact on our
genetics and I think if that was
explained better the book would have
been far too fine for me but because it
left me wanting more it's still just
before everything up to a sort of 2,000
is fantastic
but and again it is easier to research
because it's in the public domain more
you can read other books you can look at
them in more detail the modern stuff is
hard as you catch up with because it's
changing so much the book came out will
2016 it's a really different it is very
different because we using analytic
things more and some of the most modern
techniques are not mentioned here like
even the call for us call for which we
have been using for what 15 years now
it's not even modern hardly gets a
mention here when he talks about flies
fruit flies but I commend him for
talking about eugenics I have him for
talking about the Drosophila research
because not that many people do but I
think C elegans could have gotten a
little bit more mention I don't know I
would like the book to have an extra
hundred pages and taking a little bit
more time to read it and to be a little
bit more all-encompassing but that's a
personal preference I suppose well I
recommend people to read it up
who I think should lead it anyone from
the age of fourteen onwards it's a
fantastic way to look at the history of
the human kinds of the way we treat
other people of the way we understand
ourselves
there's nothing horrible about this book
and it gives you such a chance to go and
explore the topic in more detail and
when I was thinking of recording this
video looks at my shelves and my
personal library and I've selected a
couple of books which he heavily sighs I
told have the double helix because as I
mentioned I don't like James Watson I
deliberately don't have his book but
some of the other books which she really
heavily mentions started with the
absolute classic in science this is
Francois Jaco and the flies have flies
and mice and men this is not a type of
this is a cute name
and they talking about the lac operon
discovered is switching the genes on and
off in different cells in different
conditions which is fundamental to the
way the genes are expressed in the body
in a cell to get differentiated and a
Francois Jacob there the lac operon in
the discovery that was such a
fundamental discovery it's a huge book
which influenced researchers for years
and years and years and I think more
people need to read it
another one which came out I think in
2000 2001 I purchased it when it came
out I was still doing my a-levels this
is Brian Sykes and the seven daughters
of Eve so this is that ah very very
easily written but it's like than brown
away for some people introduction to
mitochondrial DNA and the we can study
mitochondrial DNA to look at the
ancestry in the way human migration
happened from the north north east
africa disney where we all came from two
books which have shifted the way we look
at genetics public looks at genetics
both of my my friendly one is the Red
Queen the sex and evolution of human
nature it's an absolute classic now it
was in Europe notable book of the year
and I have a very old Edition probably
not as old as this one this one has been
travelling with me ever since my
a-levels
this is his genome the autobiography of
species in 23 chapters because we have
two pairs of chromosomes as you know
very clever and down this is some
vintage all my a level students read
it's an absolute basic another one from
the same genre pretty much is not in
genes the biology ideology in human
nature this goes a little bit more to
psychology so it links me nice to his
idea of eugenics
it's another gentle introduction on the
matter and then my absolute favorites
which I recommend to all my students
which has been recommended to me 17
years ago by my a level teacher and this
is the eighth the eighth day of creation
makers of revolution in biology this
expanded edition by Hans Freeland
Johnson and this is an amazing
collections of interviews done with
pretty much all of the key players in
the to the middle to inter century
genetics ah this is done by several
journalists who had multiple interviews
to take in multiple interviews with the
likes of Waterloo clearly like so
rosalind Franklin they talked about what
happened in 70s with caution go over it
has basic diagrams it has pictures of
all the key players it goes in more
detail it talks about
Cold Spring Harbor aborted in the 50s
because when James Watson woman he's
Nobel prize money that's what he
invested in he met in his Institute you
can look at it insulin look at Sanger
Sanger Institute is named after Sanger
and in the history of the gene
she's an intimate history suture hamaji
he does talk about a lot about how we
discovered insulin
he talks about
very early patterning clawhauser patent
law changed it gives you build a nice
introduction to how people use to fight
in order to get the human genome that
was - competed as the government program
and this is the private program and how
decided to come together I knew
everything in that book because I'm
interested in the area but if you know
nothing this would be great but I will
still recommend you start here this is
such a wonderful book oh my gosh I
rambled enough when usually half an hour
I hope you go to sleep but as you can
see a light fly conviction I like
science nonfiction so hopefully you will
pick up and read the books thank you
guys for watching